**Business Objective**:
 To identify the trends and analyze the factors affecting and influencing the crisis contacts made by the Seattle Police Department. This can be used in improving and handling the crisis management effectively.
 
**Benefits of Open source data uploaded by Seattle city:**
It makes the data generated by the City of Seattle openly available to the public for the purpose of increasing the quality of life for our residents; increasing transparency, accountability and comparability; promoting economic development and research; and improving internal performance management.
Specifically, the Open Data program seeks to:
1.	Improve public understanding of City operations and other information concerning their communities
2.	Generate economic opportunity for individuals and companies that benefit from the knowledge created by Open Data
3.	Empower City employees to be more effective, better coordinated internally, and able to identify opportunities to better serve the public
4.	Encourage the development of innovative technology solutions that improve quality of life.

**Dataset Description:**

**Target Feature**: CIT Certified Indicator

**Rows**: 71.6k

**Columns**: 25

Template ID: Key identifying unique Crisis Templates. This should be used to generate counts

Reported Date: Date the crisis Template was reported in the records management system can vary +1 day from the occurred date

Reported Time: Time the crisis template was reported in the records management system. Can vary several hours from the occurred time

Occurred Date/Time: Occurred date and time of the event associated with the crisis template. Can be null where no association can be made o the underlying event

Call Type: How the call was received from

Initial Call Type: Initial classification of the call was made by the communication centre at the time of dispatch

Final Call Type: Final classification of the call was made by the officer closing the call, will differ from the initial call type

Disposition: Disposition of the crisis Template (one template per person per crisis involved contact) as reported by the officer

Use of Force Indicator: Indicates whether reported force was used or not

Subject veteran indicator: Indicates whether the subject of the crisis contact was identified by the officer as a veteran 

CIT officer requested: Indicates whether a crisis Intervention Team officer requested to respond the call

CIT officer dispatched: Indicates whether a crisis Intervention Team officer dispatched to the call

CIT officer arrived: Indicates whether a crisis Intervention Team officer arrived on the call
 
Officer ID: Unique ID

Officer gender: Gender of the officer (self-report), from HR data

Officer Race: Race of the officer (self-report), from Human Resources (HR) data

Officer Year of Birth: Year (date part) of the officer’s birth according to the HR data

Officer Years of experience: Years of law enforcement experience at the time the Crisis Template was reported in the Records Management System

CIT certified Indicator: CIT certification status of the officer at the time of event

Officer Bureau Desc: Bureau the officer was assigned to, at the time the crisis template was reported in the records management system

Officer Precinct Desc: Precinct the officer was assigned to, at the time the crisis template was reported in the records management system

Officer Squad Desc:  Squad the officer was assigned to, at the time the crisis template was reported in the records management system 

Precint : Geographic Precint area where call was located

Sector: Geographic Sector area where call was located

Beat: Geographic Beat where call was located

**Implementation Steps:** 

1.  Collecting and defining the data
2. 	Perceiving the stats on the data
3. 	Converting CIT Certified Indicator from Categorical to Numerical
4. 	Performing Exploratory Data Analysis
5. 	Feature Engineering and Feature Selection
6. 	Chi Square test for important
7.  Prediction using Logistic Regression
8.  Prediction using K-Nearest Neighbours
9. 	Prediction using Decision Tree
10. Prediction using Random Forest
11. Prediction using Xgboost
12. Prediction using SVM

**Explorative Data Analysis Outcomes:**

1. Officer Year of Birth --> Range Between 1946 to 1987 (~41 years)
2. Officer Years of Experience --> Having -ve Values but experience must + ve
3. Most of the Reported_Year and Occurred_Year comes under same time span (2018 to 2022) Highest in 2018 and lowest in 2022
4. All the -ve years of experience comes under Gender=N
5. Male having highest years of experience then compare to female
6. Officer Gender =N having Highest Reporting Months then compare to Male and Female
7. CIT Certified Indicator is Active after 2016 (Reported Year Range b/w 1900 -2020)
8. April month highest CIT Certified Indicator values occurred

**Machine Learning Outcomes**

**Evaluation Metric: F-Score**

1) The metrics such as Precision, Sensitivity, Recall, Specificity, F-Score, ROC-AUC Curve is used to evaluate the Classification problem. Here, we could observe that the output data is slightly imbalanced, here we could use the F-1 Score. F-1 score is generally useful when working with the imbalanced dataset and it also combines precision with recall into a single metric.
2) f1_score is 58% with Logistic Regression with L2 penalty
3) f1_score is 58% with Logistic Regression with L2 penalty with 10 folds Cross Validation and liblinear solver.
4) f1_score is 58% with Logistic Regression with L2 penalty and saga solver.
5) By Using KNN, F1_Score is 82% which is better then Logistic regression.
6) By Using RandomForest, F1_Score is 88% which is better than all the previous models.
7) By Using Xgboost, F1_Score is 87% which is less slight than Random Forest Model.
8) By Using SVM, F1_Score is 72% which is less than xgboost model.
9) By comparing all the above implemented models, we can conclude that Randomforest model has improved the performance of the model.

**Conclusion:** 

Classification Problem is overcomed by evaluating various factors such as Precision, Sensitivity, Recall, Specificity, F-Score, ROC-AUC Curve. Among all the algorithms between KNN,RandomForest,Xgboost,SVM ,"Randomforest model has improved the performance of the model"






